---
layout: post
title: "Sri Lanka 2014"
comments: true
categories:
- Featured
- Headline
- Travelogue
tags:
- Sri Lanka
- workshop
- wildlife
- photography
- travel
- landscape
- architecture
- elephants
- tourists

---

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/A0018845.jpg  >}}

I still have a few openings available for my [2014 Sri Lanka workshop](http://www.nikoniansacademy.com/all/viewWorkshop.html?course_id=1318), slated for September 13-24 this year. The workshop is offered through the Nikonians Academy, where I am honored to serve on their faculty. Even though Nikonians is the largest Nikon enthusiast member site on the planet, with 300,000 members, up to half of workshop attendees use other camera systems. You do not need to be a member of Nikonians to take a workshop. Nor do you even need to be an advanced amateur. 

<!--more-->

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_1323.jpg  >}}

Sri Lanka, plain and simple, is a photographer's paradise, a sparkling, mostly undiscovered jewel for its combination of geology, flora, fauna, people, culture and tropical weather. Sri Lanka has enjoyed peace and prosperity since its insurrection ended several years ago. Food and accommodations across the country are excellent.

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_1653-Edit-Edit.jpg  >}}

Located off the southernmost coast of India, Sri Lanka is replete with some of the oldest Buddhist and Hindu temples in the world (many still in use), some of the friendliest and most photogenic people on Earth, and wildlife that rivals Africa’s best locations − all at a fraction of the cost.

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_1574.jpg  >}}

On this tour we intimately explore Sri Lanka’s landscape, from vaunted mountains to its pristine seashore, from its tidy and colorful tea plantations to its lush forests. One of the highlights of the tour will be spending two days (four safari treks) in famed Yalla National Park, which boasts the densest wild leopard population on earth.

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_1950.jpg  >}}

There are also bull elephants, crocodiles, water buffalo, monkeys and an incredible variety of colorful birds. We will also do safaris in two other National Parks famous for their wildlife. Most evenings we will have an optional image review and critique.

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_0905-Edit.jpg  >}}

The workshop is limited to 10 participants, which allows us to have quality interactive time and lots of opportunities to learn and share. Spouses are always welcome.

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_0303.jpg  >}}

If you are interested, check out the [Nikonians site](http://www.nikoniansacademy.com/all/viewWorkshop.html?course_id=1318) for a complete description, including sample itinerary. Feel free to write me: lespicker@gmail.com to ask any questions you may have. 

{{<  img /images/bli/2014/06/DSC_2195.jpg  >}}