

The Year in Review	

2017 was a wonderful year for us here at Les Picker Fine Art Photography. At the outset I must say that little of this would have been possible without the help of my very capable assistant, Bob Boyer. But it is also true that **none** of this would have been possible without my wonderful clients, the greatest that any photographer could possibly have. 

more

### Photo Adventures
The year started with a bang, as 18 enthusiastic clients joined me on a 3-week, sold-out adventure to the Ecuadorian Amazon, the Galapagos Islands, and Peru. We booked an entire ship to ourselves in the Galapagos and I can candidly say that everyone had a marvelous time. Machu Picchu exceeded all our expectations.

Next up were assignments in Hawaii for February, always a joy, followed by a sold-out photo adventure in Canada's spectacular Yukon Territory, where I take only three photographers. 

We ended the year with a sold-out, amazing 2-week photo adventure in Myanmar. If you want to hear and see what my clients thought of the trip, [click here](). 

### Workshops
Bob and I offered workshops in our studio on topics ranging from Black and White photography to creating fine art portfolios. And, as always, we offered several fine art printing workshops. We are grateful to Moab Fine Art photo papers (a division of Legion Paper) and to Canon large format printers for their support as we strive to advance the art of digital printing. 

I also lectured to more than a dozen photography clubs, Meetups and groups in 2017. I really enjoy this aspect of my work, as I get to meet new people, explore interesting photo topics, and learn what issues are facing new and experienced photographers. 

### Projects
In 2017 I had the honor and privilege to mentor two outstanding photographers from completely different genres. [Katie Gonano]()( is an environmental portraitist who is able to capture children and families in candid moments that are a perfect reflection of their humanity. [Sean Lo]() is truly a world-class landscape and wildlife photographer who I believe is now National Geographic ready. Sean will be co-leading our China photo adventure in October, 2018 (sorry, it is sold out, but stay tuned for 2019). 

Finally, Bob and I completed the pre-publication draft of our digital printing book, which we plan to make available in 2018. 
This involved a year-long effort of writing, making screen shots, doing studio photography, and having Moab's tech expert, Evan Parker, review and critique it. 

### Planning for 2018
2018 promises to be an exceptional year, with photo adventures planned for Hawaii, England, Olympic National Park, Uganda, Tanzania, Yukon Territory & Northwest Territories, and China. 

We also have a large solo exhibit of my work coming up in July (stay tuned for more information). We hope to have our digital printing ebook available, as well as our usual slate of workshops and presentations. 